---
TOCTitle: Computers Are Not Appearing In the Correct Computer Groups
Title: Computers Are Not Appearing In the Correct Computer Groups
ms:assetid: '9b54f67f-bafc-481d-867c-4c9e4e6c79ea'
ms:contentKeyID: 18152929
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Cc708509(v=WS.10)'
---

Computers Are Not Appearing In the Correct Computer Groups
==========================================================

*Client-side targeting* is when you use Group Policy or registry settings to move computers into target groups. For more information about how to set up client-side targeting, see [Deploying Microsoft Windows Server Update Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=41777). There are a number of reasons why computers might not appear in groups when you are using client-side targeting. Use the following information to try to resolve this problem.

Verify that the WSUS console is set to use client-side targeting
----------------------------------------------------------------

By default, the WSUS server is set to use server-side targeting. If you are using client-side targeting, you need to set an option on the WSUS server. For more information about how to set up client-side targeting, see [Deploying Microsoft Windows Server Update Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=41777).

Verify that target computer group names match groups on the WSUS server
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure the name of the target computer group in Group Policy matches the name of the computer group on the WSUS server. Check the Group Policy object (GPO) or the registry setting where you enabled client-side targeting. Make sure that there are no discrepancies between the name of the computer group used in Group Policy and the name of the group used on the server. If WSUS cannot find a computer group on the server reported by a client computer, it loads the computer into the Unassigned Computers group.

Wait an hour for changes to take effect
---------------------------------------

If you make a change to group membership by using client-side targeting and the client computer has already contacted the WSUS server, it takes an hour for the server to change the computer’s group membership. This is because WSUS uses cookies to manage group membership with client-side targeting and these cookies are set to expire after one hour.

If you cannot wait an hour, use command-line options to reset the cookie and initiate detection. For information about how to use command-line options, see [Deploying Microsoft Windows Server Update Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=41777).
