---
TOCTitle: 'Step 6: Create Computer Groups'
Title: 'Step 6: Create Computer Groups'
ms:assetid: '7c221901-c6e1-4b6f-86c5-034d479fd1a0'
ms:contentKeyID: 18152819
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Cc708451(v=WS.10)'
---

Step 6: Create Computer Groups
==============================

Computer groups are an important part of a WSUS deployment, even a basic deployment. Computer groups enable you to target updates to specific computers. There are two default computer groups: All Computers and Unassigned Computers. By default, when each client computer initially contacts the WSUS server, the server adds it to both these groups.

You can create custom computer groups. Two benefits of creating computer groups are that they enable you to manage server computers differently from workstation computers and they enable you to test updates. There is no limit to the number of custom groups you can create.

Setting up computer groups is a three-step process. First, you specify how you are going to assign computers to the computer groups. There are two options: server-side targeting and client-side targeting. Server-side targeting involves manually adding each computer to its group by using WSUS. Client-side targeting involves automatically adding the client computers by using either Group Policy or the registry. Second, you create the computer group in WSUS. Third, you move the computers into groups by using whichever method you chose in the first step.

This paper explains how to use server-side targeting and manually move computers to their groups by using the WSUS console. If you had numerous client computers to assign to computer groups you could use client-side targeting, which would automate moving computers into computer groups.

You can use Step 6 to set up a server and a client-computer group. This step contains the following procedures:

-   Specify server-side targeting.
-   Create a Server and a Client group.
-   Move computers to the appropriate group.

**To specify the method for assigning computers to groups**
1.  On the WSUS console toolbar, click **Options**, and then click **Computer Options**.

2.  In the **Computer Options** box, click **Use the Move computers task in Windows Server Update Services**.

3.  Under **Tasks**, click **Save settings**, and then click **OK** when the confirmation dialog box appears.

**To create a Server and a Client group**
1.  On the WSUS console toolbar, click **Computers**.

2.  Under **Tasks**, click **Create a computer group**.

3.  In the **Group name** box, type **Server**, and then click **OK**.

4.  Under **Tasks**, click **Create a computer group**.

5.  In the **Group name** box, type **Client**, and then click **OK**.

**To manually add a computer to a group**
1.  On the WSUS console toolbar, click **Computers**.

2.  In the **Groups** box, click the group of the computer you want to move.

3.  In the list of computers, click the computer you want to move.

4.  Under **Tasks**, click **Move the selected computer**.

5.  In the **Computer group** list, select the group you want to move the computer to, and then click **OK**.
