---
TOCTitle: 'Step-by-Step Guide to Getting Started with Windows Server Update Services 2.0 on Windows Small Business Server 2003'
Title: 'Step-by-Step Guide to Getting Started with Windows Server Update Services 2.0 on Windows Small Business Server 2003'
ms:assetid: '1ff20878-4ac6-4100-bb35-0fec5f0be722'
ms:contentKeyID: 18152624
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Cc720461(v=WS.10)'
---

Step-by-Step Guide to Getting Started with Windows Server Update Services 2.0 on Windows Small Business Server 2003
===================================================================================================================

To download the most recent version of this documentation, visit [http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=51211](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=51211).

Microsoft® Windows Server™ Update Services (WSUS) provides a comprehensive solution for managing updates within your network. This document offers step-by-step instructions for basic tasks involved with deploying WSUS on your network. Use this guide to perform the following tasks:

-   Install WSUS on a computer running the Windows® Small Business Server (SBS) 2003 server software with Service Pack 1 (SP1).
-   Configure WSUS to obtain updates from Microsoft.
-   Configure client computers to install updates from WSUS.
-   Approve, test, and distribute updates.

Although WSUS includes several ways to accomplish each of these tasks, this guide offers only a single way to accomplish them. If alternatives are possible, a Note calls out these alternatives and points to more comprehensive instructions in either the "Deploying Microsoft Windows Server Update Services" white paper or the "Microsoft Windows Server Update Services Operations Guide" white paper. If you have already installed the predecessor to WSUS, Software Update Services (SUS), you should review this guide for any issues that are specific to Windows Small Business Server, and you should also review the "Step-by-Step Guide to Migrating from Software Update Services to Windows Server Update Services" to understand how to migrate to WSUS. The latest version of these documents is available at [http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=41171](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=41171).
