---
TOCTitle: 'Step 1: Matching Advanced Options'
Title: 'Step 1: Matching Advanced Options'
ms:assetid: '9c96ed35-70f0-4b4e-aa61-d10a5008cf07'
ms:contentKeyID: 18152936
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Cc708513(v=WS.10)'
---

Step 1: Matching Advanced Options
=================================

Make sure that the options for express installation files and languages on the exporting server match the settings on the importing server. For example, if you did not select the option for express installation files on the exporting server but did have the express installation file option selected on the importing server, you would not be able to distribute updates by using express installation files, because none were synchronized by the exporting server. A mismatch of language settings can have a similar effect.

You do not have to concern yourself with matching the settings for schedule, products and classifications, source, or proxy server. The setting for deferred download of updates has no effect on the importing server. If you are using the option for deferred downloads on the exporting server, you must approve the updates so they can be downloaded before taking the next step, which is migrating updates to the importing server.

**To ensure that express installation and language options on the exporting server match settings on the importing server**
1.  In the WSUS Administration snap-in of the exporting server, click the **Options** node in the left pane, and then click **Update Files and Languages**.

2.  In the **Update Files** tab, check the setting for **Download express installation files**.

3.  In the **Update Languages** tab, check the settings for the update languages.

4.  In the WSUS Administration snap-in of the importing server, click the **Options** node in the left pane, and then click **Update Files and Languages**.

5.  Make sure the settings for **Download express installation files** and **Languages** options match the selections on the exporting server.

For more information about these options, see the topics "Using Express Installation Files" and "Filtering Updates" in [Determine Bandwidth Options to Use](https://technet.microsoft.com/f47b494b-fbf5-4bf8-a5c9-c31221a3dfdb) earlier in this guide.
