---
TOCTitle: Create the Computer Groups
Title: Create the Computer Groups
ms:assetid: '39bf2e0a-bae7-45db-af8b-5be23013a128'
ms:contentKeyID: 21799548
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Dd939826(v=WS.10)'
---

Create the Computer Groups
==========================

There is a description of why you may want to use this feature, as well as a discussion of limitations and default settings, in the "Using Computer Groups" section in [Choose a Type of WSUS Deployment](https://technet.microsoft.com/3386d6e3-3c97-4299-b836-ccaf72991425) earlier in this guide.

Setting up computer groups
--------------------------

Setting up computer groups is a three-step process:

1.  Specify how to assign computers to computer groups. There are two options: server-side targeting and client-side targeting. With server-side targeting, you manually add each computer to its group. With client-side targeting, you automatically assign the computers by using either Group Policy or registry keys.
2.  Create computer groups.
3.  Move the computers into groups by using whichever method you chose in the first step.

### Step 1: Specify how to assign computers to computer groups

Use the WSUS console to specify whether you are using client-side or server-side targeting.

**To specify the method for assigning computers to groups**
1.  In the WSUS Administration console, click **Options**, and then click **Computers**. In the **Computers** dialog box, select one of the following options:

    -   **Use the Update Services console**. Select this option if you want to create groups and assign computers through the WSUS console.
    -   **Use Group Policy or registry settings on client computers**. Select this option if you want to create groups and assign computers using Group Policy or by editing registry settings on the client computer.

2.  Click **OK** to save your settings.

### Step 2: Create computer groups

Create computer groups in WSUS. The computer groups must be created on an autonomous WSUS server, whether you use client-side or server-side targeting. Computer groups cannot be created on a replica server or on a remote administration console.

**To create a computer group**
1.  In the WSUS Administration console, click **Computers**, and then click **All Computers**.

2.  In the **Actions** pane, click **Add Computer Group**.

3.  In the **Name** box, type a name for your new computer group, and then click **OK**.

### Step 3: Move the computers

Use WSUS to move computers into groups, or automate this task.

**To move a computer to a different group by using server-side targeting**
1.  In the WSUS Administration console, click **Computers**, and then click the computer group of the computer you want to move.

2.  In the list of computers, right-click the computer you want to move, and then click **Change Membership** in the shortcuts menu.

3.  In the **Set Computer Group Membership** dialog box, click the computer group or groups to which you want to move the computer, and then click **OK**.

**To move a computer to a different group by using client-side targeting**
-   Use Group Policy or the registry to enable client-side targeting. For more information about how to configure the client computer, see [Determine a Method to Configure Clients](https://technet.microsoft.com/4906fa0d-47b0-48a0-90c7-90bd179a7eed). For more information about the client-side targeting setting, see the "Enable client-side targeting" section in [Configure Clients Using Group Policy](https://technet.microsoft.com/f47b485b-8fff-4b7c-8386-a9edfeedf2f5) later in this guide.
