---
TOCTitle: 'Windows Server Update Services 3.0 SP2 Features and Fixes'
Title: 'Windows Server Update Services 3.0 SP2 Features and Fixes'
ms:assetid: '7abbd4f8-dc96-44fc-82f3-488c454c60f1'
ms:contentKeyID: 21799615
ms:mtpsurl: 'https://technet.microsoft.com/sv-se/library/Dd939866(v=WS.10)'
---

Windows Server Update Services 3.0 SP2 Features and Fixes
=========================================================

This document highlights the feature improvements and important software updates provided in the Windows Server Update Services 3.0 Service Pack 2 (WSUS 3.0 SP2) release.

New Windows Server and Client Version Support
---------------------------------------------

-   Integration with Windows Server® 2008 R2
-   Support for the BranchCache feature on Windows Server 2008 R2
-   Support for Windows 7 clients

WSUS Feature Improvements
-------------------------

### Auto-Approval Rules

-   Auto-approval rules now include the ability to specify the approval deadline date and time for all computers or specific computer groups.

### Update Files and Languages

-   Improved handling of language selection for downstream servers includes a new warning dialog that appears when you decide to download updates only for specified languages.

### Easy Upgrade

-   WSUS 3.0 SP2 can be installed as an in-place upgrade from earlier versions of WSUS and will preserve all of your settings and approvals. The user interface is compatible between WSUS 3.0 SP1 and SP2 on the client and the server.

### Reports

-   New Update and Computer Status reports provide the ability to filter on updates approved for installation. You can run these reports from the WSUS console or use the API to incorporate this functionality into your own reports.

Software Updates
----------------

-   Stability and reliability fixes for the WSUS server, such as support for IPV6 addresses greater than 40 characters.
-   The approval dialog now sorts computer groups alphabetically by group name.
-   Computer status report sorting icons are now functional in x64 environments.
-   A new release of Windows Update Agent is included with WSUS 3.0 SP2 that provides improvements and fixes, such as support for APIs called by non-local system callers in a non-interactive session.

For more information about this release see the WSUS 3.0 SP2 Release Notes at [http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=139840](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=139840).

Copyright Notice
----------------

Information in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, is subject to change without notice. Unless otherwise noted, the companies, organizations, products, domain names, e-mail addresses, logos, people, places, and events depicted in examples herein are fictitious. No association with any real company, organization, product, domain name, e-mail address, logo, person, place, or event is intended or should be inferred. Complying with all applicable copyright laws is the responsibility of the user. Without limiting the rights under copyright, no part of this document may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise), or for any purpose, without the express written permission of Microsoft Corporation.

Microsoft may have patents, patent applications, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property rights covering subject matter in this document. Except as expressly provided in any written license agreement from Microsoft, the furnishing of this document does not give you any license to these patents, trademarks, copyrights, or other intellectual property.

© 2009 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

Microsoft, Active Directory, ActiveX, Authenticode, Excel, InfoPath, Internet Explorer, MSDN, Outlook, Visual Studio, Win32, Windows, Windows Server, and Windows Vista are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.

All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.
